Isn't that wonderful?
Okay, we're talking to William Gass here in St.
Louis.
Don't mind about it.
They're all your words.
And we're watching it.
There it goes.
Yeah, and I always wanted to have my own library.
I'm not a collector.
But you have 12,000 books somewhere.
Yeah, it's an accumulator.
An accumulator.
Okay.
It's, I don't think one would find many
really rare or ununique or something books in all of this I mean a few but nothing really on the whole I just have gotten out to a place where I really have a working library I'm at home with my books and almost everything that I need is at hand and that is just my idea of total you know luxury and
The book I just finished, which is coming out this fall, and the title is Every Book It's Reader.
The Power of the Printed Word to Stir the World, Not to Change the World.
That's a little, that's reaching a bit too much.
But books that make things happen.
But one of the goals for me in this book was to be able to try and do it with all the books that were available and at hand, within reach, in my home.
After all these years of putting together not 20,000 books, but let's say 10,000 or 15,000 books, the Lord knows how many there are.
But to try at this point in my life to use what I had, and especially the literary biographies and the works of criticism, your Wilker book, for instance, which is a few years old, and I said, finally, I have a chance to use it, you know?
Oh, yeah.
And it was wonderful.
It was just wonderful to finally say, oh, I've got a book on that.
Oh, yeah.
To just follow... Oh, yeah.
That's all...
I mean, um, I have, I just finished, I've been doing a series of pieces for Harper's, and I just finished one on Nietzsche.
Uh, well, when I wanted to write on Nietzsche, I just went to the basement.
We have stacks in the basement and stacks in the first floor and all the second floor and so forth.
And so I just went and gathered up an armload of books, you know, and took them up there, and I had all that I needed.
And that kind of thing, when I did the piece on Rabelais, I was a little lucky.
We have what we call various rooms, the French room, the German room.
Really?
Mary's favorite room is the French room, which is just French literature.
German is in our bedroom.
And I just...
went there and I happened to have an old, beat-up, terrible copy.
The pages are all brittle and brown.
It's just awfully cheap piece of stuff.
I think I bought it in a little bookstore in Paris forever ago and never used it.
And my French isn't all that great, but I wanted to look at the original.
because these were translations of Gargantua and Pettigrew.
And I—this book happened to be an annotated version with notations for each of the changes and each of the editions.
Really?
And it was perfect for me, you know.
And it was this book, which I never thought I would ever use.
I had a book that I—Mary says, what do you say to me?
book on histology?
I mean, what is it?
Well, it came in handy from my novel, The Tunnel.
I used it for diagrams and all kinds of stuff, and never thought I'd, you know.
So my belief is every book is, you know,
a sacred object, and it's going to—you never know, and it's going to leap into your heart.
Every book gets reader.
If only one person reads the book through the course of its existence, it serves its function, hasn't it?
Oh, help yourself.
I'll just have a little coffee for a bit.
I don't know what these things are.
When you were writing The Tunnel, and you had this book on histology, is it?
Yes.
Which came first, the need for the book on histology, or the fact that you had it?
No, I just had it.
I just had this, I saw this book, and of course I'm great on cheap, because we don't have that much money to buy books, so we have to buy them when they don't cost anything.
And I was fascinated by the drawings in it.
And then I just put it on the shelf, and it sat there for twenty years, at least.
And then I wanted an image for the final page of the novel, and I thought, anus, that's what I need.
And there was, in that book, a beautiful drawing which I could reproduce.
You never know.
It came right out of your... I wish I'd had this anecdote two months ago, let me tell you.
It's the perfect illustration of exactly the kind of thing I'm looking for is how your books really energize your own creative... your books.
Oh, yeah.
Well, and they give you all kinds of ideas, like...
We emptied out at one time, many years ago again, an attic that belonged to my wife's grandparents.
And it was sets of the new century, of Harper's going back to 1865, 78, but also some that included Henry James' pieces and things like that.
And I've been thinking about and I'm going to do a piece on a piece of fiction that works out of the ads in these old magazines because they are a story all by themselves.
And so I've been taking a few notes and working up.
So here are these bunch of old magazines which are now going to do something.
You know, you never know what
what will give you an idea.
Is it fair to say that a good deal of your creative process emerges from your reading?
Almost all of it.
Really?
Yeah.
In the tunnel I used a little, some material, not much, that's autobiographical.
But, for instance, people constantly do this with me.
They say, gee, you must know a lot about gardening.
My wife is a wonderful gardener, but because of all these plants and a whole, this paragraph about weeds and stuff.
And I said, no, I'm just collecting it.
Gardening catalogs.
I collect book catalogs, and it's amazing.
And people are, they say, what do you find out about this?
And I say, read the bookseller's catalogs.
Read the auction catalog.
you hire all of these bibliographers and these researchers to get all this detail and the history of the book the provenance the ownership it's amazing the detail that you can get from catalogs that you can't get i mean that's where the professionals are applying their trade that's right preparation of these so it's not only the reading of great creative works but also the reading of
stand near anything or anything but i also providence my providence is again because of fatigue is i buy a lot of books we're going to have our big cultural event in st louis in a few days the book fair and there'll be a million books and it's almost literature oh it's a great thing i mean it is wonderful uh and you do get
great bargains now and then.
I mean, I picked up a copy of Joseph in Egypt, and I was looking at it, and it was a buck, and then I saw that it was signed to his hostess when Thomas Mann came through in the thirties, and I bought this book.
It's one of my goodies in my library.
Hemingway, similarly.
pick up Paul Valery in French here.
Wouldn't you love to know where they came from?
Yes.
How things wash up.
I remember buying a copy of Santillana's The Sense of Beauty in a goodwill over here someplace for a quarter, and I thought, how did it wash up on these shores?
You know, that's exactly the image that Charles Lamb uses.
referring to Coleridge, how he takes books and he never returns them.
But he said, for just as many books as he takes, he brings in like a tiger.
Oh, I see.
So just as many wonderful things as you lose, he will bring books that he brought from someplace else and he'll deposit them.
And of course, Coleridge was the great annotator of books as well.
Oh, that's right.
And I have a little riff on him in my new book, one of the things that he wrote.
I think it's Princeton.
It's published in eight volumes of his Marginalia.
Oh, there's that book that came out recently.
Marginalia.
I interviewed her for the book.
Heather Jackson in Toronto.
She's wonderful.
She has a new one coming from Yale soon, in a couple of months, called Romantic Readers, a companion volume.
Books in the British Library, people reading in the Romantic era, and the impressions of their reading that they left.
Of course, when you talk about marginalia to librarians, they go crazy.
Oh, sure.
But that's why I love the provenance thing, because
in these cheap books I buy at the book fair sometimes.
Old marks, you know, you'll see in crayon, two dollars crossed out, one dollar under it crossed out, fifty cents crossed out.
I love that.
I do too.
Or all the names or who an old book plate or things that
Also, of course, the stuff that you shake out of them.
Well, the book is artifact.
I mean, this is really my fundamental interest of the book as object.
It's not just the content, which of course is what the exercise seems to be about, but how the book is... I tell the story often.
I may even write a children's book about this at some point, but at the Library of Congress they have a copy of Kirkham's Grammar, which is a self-help...
teach yourself how to read and write and type of a thing.
Not even a first edition.
If you saw it at the fair here, you wouldn't pay 25 cents for it.
Read to tatters.
The only distinguishing thing is the prior ownership signature of Abraham Lincoln.
And the fact that it's the earliest known book that has been in his hands, and it is the book that
is that when he arrived in New Salem, he walked eight miles to get the book.
If you handle it as I have and you feel the tingle, you know, from these pages, it could emerge the Gettysburg Address, the Emancipation Proclamation, and, you know, the feeling of that, the energy that comes from holding a book like that.
Yeah, yeah.
I thought that would make a pretty good kid's book, a little children's book.
Oh, yeah, it would.
Maybe my wife and I.
two weeks, two days, that I might work on.
So are you looking for anything special when you go, when you go looking for books, or is it serendipity?
No, it's totally, especially at the book fair.
But no, it's, I have, of course, I keep an eye on for certain books that I tend to really collect, in a sense.
James, anything, or Rilke, or Stein, or, there are a few people.
Wyndham Lewis or, oh, what's that, Malcolm Lowry.
When I was in Canada, I was busy getting Malcolm Lowry stuff.
But I'm not really trying to get first edition so much.
No, I understand.
I prefer that.
This is really my interest, too.
Right, I prefer that.
You know, it's nice, but— It's nice if you can— I want the text, because I use the text.
Do you write in your books?
Do you have annotations?
I used to.
I don't much anymore.
I use sticky little things.
But it's just simply, it's not that I have a particular objection to it or anything.
It's just that I don't have time.
I think the sticky things are good because it marks it for you.
Yeah.
Instead of flipping through the book to find where you... I know in a review of books,
from galleys or something, and I'll write in the thing, but then you have to put through it.
Yeah, well that's what I do.
And I use pretty big ones, and I can write on them, and then stick it there.
But I hope you keep those things, because I think they're very important.
They stay in the book, pretty much, and they go back up on the shelf.
There they are.
I tend to put books back before the damn fax checkers.
phone me and say, well, you didn't give us the fact check on such and such, and so I can go back and find what I quoted from.
Then I tag everything, I use it.
But, yeah, I don't, it's sheer chance.
So do you think a person who's not familiar with you, biographically, let's say, or has a knowledge of your writing, if this person were to come as an archaeologist, quote, through your
French room and your German room, and would they be able to get a sense of you as an individual and as a writer?
Uh, it might be a little hard because I collect a lot of writers that, and books that are not in my area, uh, or that I might not even be expected to like.
Um, uh, simply because I think my library ought to have them.
uh and uh so i i do and i'm and i'm surprising myself sometimes in actually using them uh but otherwise yeah because i i mean that's what i uh oh it's one of the autobiographical elements in the tunnel is the section uh where the narrator invokes the muse well i gave them
the invocation is a hundred pages long and he needs all the help he can get and it's books his muses are books and that's true for me and so calling on you know whoever to come to your aid so
And I like to keep books.
I never throw them away.
Never.
You don't discard anything?
No, because if I get a better copy of Hardy's Return of the Native, because my earlier one was a cheap paperback, it happened to be the first, one of the earliest paperbacks published, and it was one where I first read my first Hardy, I'm not going to give away, you know.
Well, I'd argue in one of my books that
Just because you get a new edition of the same, purportedly the same text, doesn't mean that they're the same.
No, it certainly doesn't.
There might be a really terrific introduction there that's useful to you, or the notes, whatever.
I mean, the book, again, as artifact, has different paratextual elements to it, as they say.
Right.
And oddly enough, I have quite a few books.
And it turned out to be...
damaged in the sense of misprinted uh signature repeated signature dropped i have a malcolm lowry in which that's true um now that ruins the value of the book i suspect but not for me not for you well i have a few pirated ones too very interesting um i found in shanghai a pirated edition this was when i was in the navy in the war
And I was stationed in Shanghai after the war, the Second World War, for a few months of Ulysses.
And it's just, it was published in San Francisco.
For what year?
Because the first is... There's no date on it.
No date.
But it is, it's clearly published.
1934?
Yeah, and it's clearly a porn thing because it has porn.
advertisements in the back, you know.
That's great.
And, you know, those are a few things.
After years of hunting in bookstoles, you have luck now and then.
But as I say, it's most popular.
I found the Fifty Cents, and I loved it.
Is it a copy of the
I don't mean the first, who cares, but the family Shakespeare, you know, Thomas Bolder, the original Bolderization of Shakespeare.
You know, you have to have that.
I do a little thing on Bolderism in my new book, and how so much of what young readers get, when you think of Rabelais, I mean, how Rabelais has been really
I guess Gulliver's Travels is a great example.
I mean, if you read all of that, there could be some arguments for, you know, censoring it.
Yeah, sure.
But the various versions that have been made from little readers all the way up to adult readers and how much we get through the filtration of a translator or an editor.
That's right.
And that seems to me what was driving you in the Rilke book.
You know, you really weren't happy with the translations that you were reading.
No, and I had them all there, in my library.
So I could stack them up right now.
You were almost grumpy about it.
Yeah.
It forced me to do it, because I was teaching them, and it forced me to start translating.
Because I was doing it, not because I'm a good translator, or that I could be better than they,
I wanted really to bring out more of the philosophical elements that I was teaching in the translation.
But it did.
It did drive me to try, you know.
And I also learned, of course, how difficult it is in a very practical way.
I try this, but I'm trying to work on it a little now.
I have a passion in the German canon.
Very difficult.
But I learn about, even though my translations are drizzly, I've read the poem when I get through.
I have some sense of what's going on.
I've gone through Elman's, if you mentioned Ulysses Joyce, he actually taught himself Norwegian, you know.
So he could read, uh, I know people.
I mean, it just drives me crazy because I'm such a bad linguist.
I have two friends.
One is a composer.
And every time he goes someplace, he's gay.
And he's always looking for good beaches with young men on them.
So he says, I'm going to go to Brazil.
Okay.
Popped in a Portuguese tapes in his car, and pretty soon he had picked up this thing by, with his ear, you know.
And he knows, I don't know how many languages that he had gotten.
I don't know how much he can read, but he can converse, at least enough to pick up young boys.
There you go.
Twenty languages.
But the other is a friend of mine who is, um, is, was a James scholar.
Oh, yes, I forgot one.
Oh, that's all right.
Go ahead.
I'm fine.
Uh, and this, uh, she, um, gets in for students' fable, so she learns the Italian.
Uh, and she got interested in Kierkegaard, so she learned Ganesh.
And now she's just finished a big novel that she's trying to get published, a translation from the Danish.
But she just, you know, it's amazing how, for me, impossible.
So tell me a little bit about, you said you were in the Navy, and did you have a sense of the arc of what your life was going to... No, I knew what I wanted to do.
I mean...
I knew I wanted to write, and I knew that what I wanted to write would not support me.
I knew also I didn't want to be in an English department at any cost.
I generally don't get along with English departments.
And I love philosophy, so I did want to go into philosophy.
And that's about it.
I mean, I didn't have any.
And this is at about the age of what?
Well, that decision was made when I was in high school.
I was sixteen or seventeen.
I had one advantage over some people.
I had a clear sense, because it was obvious, but I had a clear sense of what I wanted to do very early on.
I remember Mary, my wife who was an architect, she bounced from here to there and
She has very many skills.
When you only have one, it makes it easy.
And I, so I knew that.
The Navy was just a huge lengthy interruption in education.
And I got into the academy where I wanted to be, and I've been there ever since.
And of course it's
It's an incredibly annoying place, but it's better than anywhere else I can imagine.
And it's a day job, as they say.
Oh, yeah.
I haven't had that luxury, in fact.
I have just been invited by the Yale University Press to write a centennial history of the press.
Oh.
And I've never written for University Press before, to me.
And I'm going to meet with them next week, in fact.
Well, if you're there.
And you happen to run into a young woman named Michelle Comey, K-O-M-I-E.
She's a wonderful young woman.
She's one of the editors there now, and she worked at the International Writers' Center here.
She was on my staff for a couple years before she went off to Yale.
Introduce yourself, and she's terrific.
Young.
I think I'm going to do it.
Why not?
Sure.
This is so alien to me.
The copy deadline is the end of next year.
I said, so when's the pub date?
They said, 2008.
I said, two years?
Yeah.
I mean, you ought to have longer than the pub.
It takes to print it.
I mean, yeah, really.
But I guess that's the way it works.
academic publishing.
I mean, I just turned in a manuscript for my new book a couple weeks ago, and it'll be out in December, you know.
Yeah, well, I just finished one and went to Knopf, and it'll be out in spring, early spring.
Right now?
Yeah.
Oh, wonderful.
What's the title?
Temple of Texts.
Oh, fantastic.
So, I mean, I just, it moved along.
Yeah.
Whereas, in an academic thing, everything takes forever.
Uh, and that's because there's no, no.
I mean, they assume the book is, you know, eternally irrelevant, you know, and it doesn't matter.
And they really need to assure themselves that you've had it right, I guess.
Oh, yeah.
And it's anonymous, so you don't know who's nitpicking.
But they know you, and that's the trouble.
Oh yeah, and if they like you, it's one thing.
If they don't, I've always resisted it.
My wife loves Yale University Press and likes Yale, and it's not a lot of money, but it will serve me well between this book and the next one I want to write, waiting to see how the new one does.
It's like baseball.
What kind of a year did you have last year?
Yeah, that's right, yeah.
I have a lot of confidence in this book that's coming out this fall.
I might—I'm going to shut this off a second.
I don't have to trans— Invitations to conferences that were largely translation problems and stuff.
So I got to meet a number of translators to whom I am totally indebted, and that was fun.
And I really enjoyed those conferences.
I usually don't like these things.
And it was, and I met him.
I've met now a great many of the translators I adore.
So I'm thinking this little conversation might work in there.
And I've got a wonderful editor at Harper's who will allow me to do this.
Oh.
He'll let me do stuff with the manuscript.
I can't really do it when the galleys come back.
You know, I'm not tinkering.
No.
Things like that.
I've already told them I'll be giving them 2,000 more awards, so what's the difference between 2,000 and 3,000, right?
Yeah, right.
That's what I think.
We'll see what happens.
But if you think about this whole idea, if we could just kind of enter a little bit of conversation on so much of what we get of the Western canon or the great books,
It comes by way of someone else's translation, someone else's taste.
Oh, yeah, yeah.
And you discuss that to some extent in that book.
Yeah.
Well, again, of course, one is aware, especially if you try to translate anything yourself, of how much is lost.
I mean, that's—and it's famous, and everybody knows about it.
But, good heavens,
There are people who, and I think Pound was one, whose best work depends on bouncing off another text.
Really?
And I think it shows up in his response.
He does then translate things that are very often not literal in any sense.
But that is his real source of inspiration for his own work.
And a lot of the translators, some of them are classics of the early Rabelais translator and people like that.
Or somebody like Thomas Hobbes' translation of Thucydides.
Now Thucydides is suddenly a renaissance
Yeah, but he had an agenda.
Forbes had an agenda.
Oh, sure.
Well, they all do.
Especially an agenda.
But the language is amazing.
Now, it isn't facilities anymore, but it is a fascinating thing.
But there are other people, like William Weaver's translations, for instance, of Calvino.
Those are gorgeous.
Weaver's fabulous.
He's just terrific, or robust.
Um, and one of my favorite Latin American writers, I can't read Spanish, and I couldn't read this difficult stuff anyhow, I did know some.
Um, uh, Jose Lima is, is incredibly complicated.
Uh, and he did Lima's novel so beautifully in the sense of how it reads in English.
Now, maybe
It's not Lima's book anymore, but who cares?
It's a great book in English.
I'd just like you to follow up on a phrase you use, pound, his best stuff is bouncing off texts.
What do you mean by that?
Well, I think he looks at the texts and he's reading the courtier poets, I mean the troubadour poets, and
he's or he's moving off of some early thing which the earlier the better or the the the language even further away uh and the ideas uh spark his real poetic gifts and then he starts to write the poem that that he he is is encouraged to write by this thing in the other i felt that tug myself um
The best translations I've done of Rilke poems were done for my novel, where I had a different problem.
Namely, I had to translate a couple of, about four, of Rilke's poems as my narrator would have translated them.
Wonderful, yeah.
So, I felt freer.
suddenly instead of trying to be so faithful to the poem I could just sort of screw around and I think I did a better job and and I can understand that feeling and some of the most famous passages in the cantos or our translations the seafarer stuff is this marvelous
And he was a person like this, of course, who was constantly digging into books and getting his ideas and phrasing.
And I can carry, I know I can carry a phrase of, say, Ben Johnson's around for five years, waiting for something in my own work to try to capture what he did when he
moves from one idea to another is, oh, so wonderful.
And, you know, you're just wasting, waiting, waiting, waiting.
You're killing me with this, because I like using epigraphs for all my chapters.
Uh-huh.
And it kind of makes it, I write a little bit about commonplace books.
Oh, yeah.
So it's kind of a little exercise in putting quotes up there, but as you say, you'll carry a quote around.
I'll carry it around.
I was first looking into Chapman's Homer for a decade, and then when I was writing this chapter on translation, I said, I have to use the whole sonnet, much of my travel in the realms of the world and many goodly isles and kingdoms seen.
He's talking about reading a translation, Chapman's translation of Homer.
That's right.
Not just those two lines, use the whole sonnet.
I think the only danger of these translations is that somebody may get too great a notion that they're reading the original.
Yeah.
Well, Brea had a very good point.
He said, one of the big paradoxes is that the works themselves in the original are eternal.
They're, you know, Cervantes, but it is fresh today in the original as it ever has been.
And yet we need, every generation seems to need a new translation.
New version.
Because the translations date very quickly.
That's right.
Very interesting, isn't it?
Yeah.
Well, I think the point of Borges' wonderful piece, Pierre Menard, because that crazy idea that Pierre Menard is going to write Cervantes over
himself word for word the way but cervantes did but it's going to be pierre menard's thing is simply a metaphor for each reader because each reader reads every word of the original essay in spanish for boys each word
Where does Borges articulate this?
This is in a collection called Fiction.
I haven't had that.
Okay, good.
And it's called Pierre Menard, the author of Don Quixote.
And it's a wonderful piece on translation and reading.
Because, he says, Pierre Menard's version, which is word-for-word the same as Cervantes wrote, which, if you were reading Spanish,
You would read every word Cervantes wrote, but, he says, the references to Nietzsche in Pierre Menard's version is so much profounder than in Cervantes.
And, of course, the whole idea is that you bring to it all kinds of other things, and you see existentialist feelings here and back there that are
I can't wait to get to this when I get home.
It's a wonderful piece.
He's terrific on that, I think.
I love the Library of Babel, too.
It's wonderful.
I used an excerpt from that as the epigrack of my Patience and Fortune book.
Oh, yeah.
He was very funny.
He came here, and I was supposed to
introduce him at the chapel.
And so the day before, we had lunch.
And apparently he is very interested in etymology of people's names.
And so he said, gas, gas, what is that?
What is the meaning of that?
And I said, well, it's just, it's German, it's gasa.
And it's just alley, it really means alley.
And he just beamed.
And he said, oh, well, you know, my name comes from Burgos, city.
Ah, he says, I'm a city.
And you're an alley.
And summed up the literary situation.
That's wonderful.
Yeah.
I've got a nice profile of Robert Coles in my new book where he talks about, and he's the one who pioneers this whole concept of teaching medical students literature, the idea of making them better positions, but he's in his course with the Harvard students called Guilt 105, and he teaches Dorothy Day,
And the Elie Wiesel book he has them read is Night, so it's Night and Day.
They call that stage of the course Night and Day.
It's kind of cool.
Yeah, it is.
He's a lot of fun.
I can't wait to get this into ... There's a woman picking me up about 10.30, and if you don't mind, I always carry a camera with me, but I came here from the University of Wisconsin, and the camera
is at home, and this woman who's picking me up is bringing a camera.
Would you mind if I snap a couple of pictures of you?
Oh, no.
No problem.
Because I really would like to do that.
Oh, sure.
We do have something for you.
Oh, Mary's burning it.
A CD with all of Catherine's, our daughter's stuff about books.
Oh, fabulous.
Maybe I can do something.
Well, I don't know about that, but you might be curious.
Well, I'm writing a column for this new magazine called Fine Books and Collections, and it just started, and I'm looking for fresh ideas of things to write about, and one never knows, do one.
That's right.
Speaking of translations, there's this new press.
I don't know if you've seen Archipelago books or not.
I haven't.
And I've got one right here, just a new one, but they do nothing but translation.
Oh, really?
And they're really nice.
It's a nice trap.
I get it.
On their boards, whatever you call it.
Oh, wow.
It's one of them.
And I really love the way they did this.
Let me just write some of this stuff down.
One of the photographs that a friend of mine, he lives right across the street.
He's a terrific photographer.
Went to Paris.
to photograph the Rodin things.
And this on the wall here is one of his photographs of Rodin.
In fact, I saw this Eastman.
There's a lot of pictures for you, isn't it?
Yes.
We're doing a—with Ken Botnick, who's designing the book, we're doing a really expensive text of his stuff.
I'll check these out.
Where is Acapella, though?
It's in New York.
I don't know exactly the address, but... That's nice.
Yeah, I'll contact them.
This is good.
Wonderful.
Now, you don't have a strange spelling of Nicholas, do you?
Uh, N-I-C-H.
Yeah, that's right.
And B-A-S-B-A-N-E-S, a Greek name.
Oh.
Which I'm told means winemaker, I guess, if you want to go from Alley.
Really?
This has been a great treat.
I'm so pleased they were able to... Well, I'm glad.
I was really looking forward to this.
And then this thing came along, which I had to go to.
Did you have a decent crowd?
I had an excellent crowd.
Oh, that's always nice.
Just quite a few.
I signed easily for an hour.
Oh, well, that's great.
A few people brought books, which is always nice.
Yeah.
Fans, you know, if you have people show up, you know.
Oh, sure.
I enjoyed it.
Well, there was so much going on, I was a little worried, because, uh... That's why everyone was pleased with the... Yeah.
It was such a pretty good... Yeah, because, um, a lot of people who would have loved to have come had to go and...
What I've learned in my short life as an author is that one must leave one's ego at the door.
Oh, I know.
I have the same experience.
Don't fret if only six people show that.
And one day, they will.
Do you know Tom Phillips' work?
No.
The Umament?
I mean, sure.
And the other one.
This is... Should I follow you?
Yeah.
Okay.
Just get my secret footer here.
Lovely home, may I say.
Oh, I love this.
Oh, there's things here, don't we?
Here's where you are.
Uh-huh.
Yeah.
This guy took a Victorian novel called The Human Document.
He's a British photographer.
British artist, classicist, translator of Dante, writer of operas.
And then he took this book and he started to do drawings over the top of every page, but leaving little holes for some of the words to shine through.
And each of those makes a kind of haiku-ish poem or
statement, and then them put together makes a kind of narrative.
Uh, and he's fantastic, I think.
And where's he from?
He's in, he's in Cambridge, or lives in London, really.
Um, and— Look at that.
See, this is, of course, not an original thing, but it goes on
And he's done several editions.
But each page is done, is given a different treatment.
That's fantastic.
And when I first saw these, I saw original.
I was dumbfounded, and I have one.
You're blessed in that you have such a spacious home that...
contain the books, you know.
Yeah, well— Doesn't it mortify you, the thought of having to move?
What would you do with them?
Oh, we don't think of having to move.
No, no moving.
Eric Gill.
Do you have an arrangement, or is it pretty much— You know Eric's books.
And in there was the photography and books about books.
There's a—in the sunroom, there's a collection of stuff on Paris, and then—
all the rooms upstairs.
The library, what we call the library, is all literature in English.
And then my study is linguistics, rhetoric, and criticism.
Wonderful.
And so forth.
But here it is, right here.
A human document?
Yeah.
A human document.
Isn't that wonderful?
And then he calls it his version of humanment.
This is a silk screen over the top.
That's one of one hundred.
He's an amazing man.
Have you met him?
Yes.
We brought him at the International Life Center.
Brought him.
And he did a translation of Divine Comedy.
The Inferno only, and did illustrations.
It's wonderful too.
It's amazing.
So you do have a very definite scheme.
You know what stuff is.
Oh, I have, yeah.
Otherwise I can't use it.
You can lay your hands at it.
I have to.
You have architecture and Dura down there.
Yeah, well these are in alphabetical order, only they're the large size.
And this is just artists.
in alphabetical order, and then over here it's history, and then we start criticism of various periods.
And it keeps going along.
So what do we call this room?
In terms of the French room or the German room, is this the art room?
Yeah, this is the art room.
And then this is the multiplicative photographic, the photo collection.
There are more art books coming over here.
Are you constantly shifting things around?
Shifting because, as you see, books start coming.
I've got to reshelve everything.
So then I have to find out how places to put stuff.
We just got another load.
There's a stack.
There's other stacks that just arrived.
Are you one of these people who feels that so many books, so little time, are there books that you really...
feel you have to read but you haven't read yet, or is it more now picking books that you want to reread, I wonder?
Oh, but I still don't get a chance to make those decisions because I'm so busy with some assignments or something, and I have to read those books because of the project.
And so I rarely choose to read anything that I pick out.
I can tell you one another.
May I come?
Sure.
This is fun.
Thank you.
You have no idea how much of a treat and a thrill this is for me.
He told me.
Thank you so much.
I will enjoy this.
Thank you.
Oh, look at this.
This woman is coming out of camera, too.
I'd love to take some pictures of you in one of the settings.
One thing I'm proud of is the fact that I built these bookcases 35 years ago.
And they're not sagging much.
Well, you don't double shelve either.
No.
You're very lucky that you have the luxury of space where you don't have to put one row of books in front of another one.
That's right.
That's true.
One, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine.
Nine.
Wow.
See, what are these, about nine-foot ceilings?
They must be, at least.
Yeah.
Fantastic.
These books shouldn't be on the radiator, but I piled—I put them on top of styrofoam.
So over here we have Ulysses, we have Beckett— Yeah, the Irish styrofoam is on here and goes across there and then fills that.
That's Irish literature.
That Brenda Maddox biography is very good.
American Lit goes around to about there and then British.
Including this closet.
Oh, look at this, like a little, what do we call it, a pantry or an alcove, I wonder?
It used to be a closet.
A closet, which is great.
Oh, this is great.
Do you share this same madness?
Yeah.
She's got a great architectural library.
I have a studio on the third floor, which my library is there.
another bedroom on the third floor, that is for literature translation.
Yeah, I always thought when my daughters moved out of the house, you know all this space all of a sudden becomes suddenly available.
Oh yeah, the kid left the house and we were pouring in, I mean, with the book.
Oh, this is great.
I wish my wife were going to see this, that she wouldn't feel so badly about what we've done to our house.
Oh, there's shelves.
There's wall space here.
You haven't done too broadly in here.
Yeah, exactly.
This is fun.
So this is Elizabeth's bedroom.
You have two daughters also.
You have two daughters?
I have two daughters.
This is my sitting room now, but it's also the French library.
I'm kind of messy referring to that.
This is not messy.
Come to my house, then you'll see messy.
Stendhal.
Oh, this is wonderful.
Nice sitting room.
I'm just so grateful to the, I don't know about yourself, that Balzac biography is fabulous, I have to say, to the publishing industry for sending me so many review books.
Oh, isn't it nice.
Do you like that?
That really, and I'd like to acknowledge it in print, but I'm afraid that set me off.
I didn't.
So I'm just going to let that sleeping dog lie.
That one is, but I continue to write about them, so it's... This is Camden's, I think.
She had the smaller one.
She was the younger, I'll bet, right?
I can tell you here.
This is our bedroom, which is the German furniture.
Oh, this is so cool.
I just got this book as well.
Oh, that's Anne out there.
Mary, she brought a camera for me.
I want to take a few pictures, and Bill said that there.
Hi, Cat.
Two.
Why don't you read it for me?
Mrs. Orthwine, Grateful for Charming Hospitality, St.
Louis.
Wow.
1939, Thomas Mount.
That was at the sale.
Yes.
And two volumes of Joseph in Egypt, three dollars.
Hold on to that, because I'd like to take a picture of you with it.
The woman is just coming in with the camera.
Wow!
I was looking at this sort of idly, and then my hand began to shake.
You can't see the goose.
My goodness!
Wow!
How, how could anyone
You know what happens?
People pass away, and the next generation, they could care less.
I mean, I got an Emily Dickinson for $10.
You know, I mean, perfect first.
Thank you.
You know, Mr. Gass?
Hello.
Good to see you.
All right, so now, you know how this works, right?
It's joy, but I think you just put it on.
I think we go on.
Oh, super.
I'm going to take some pictures of you, sir.
Okay.
How about, um... Where do you want?
In the other room?
That other room is fabulous, yeah.
It's more like... I want one of these, uh... This has really been wonderful.
Well, let's just get a couple of, like, uh... Now with the television.
Oh, yeah.
I know.
How about that?
That corner looks really good.
Let me just put your tape on.
I do take very few pictures.
How about in the corner?
Oh, this is great.
Now, how about if you open to the time to the description and I'll shoot over your shoulder like this?
Very good.
Excellent.
Do you like to take me a seated picture?
No.
This is really a picture of Harold Bloom in his room.
Oh, I bet.
It's an older picture before he lost off of weight, but he's a little older.
This is very good.
Okay.
I've got a few.
Maybe in the room downstairs, if you don't mind.
Sure.
And do you mind if I get in touch with you at some point, if I have any questions?
Easy to reach an email.
The email address?
We just changed it.
I have a picture of the two of you, do you mind?
How about in here, where we have a little light?
All of these rooms have names.
There's a French room, there's an art room, there's a German room.
I'm thinking.
I like things like, let's try a couple
I like the light.
Get a little closer if you don't mind.
Well, that's not going to work.
Did I blast with them?
Well, the service part of the books over here.
But they're not better still there.
And I'm going to do close up to the books.
We'll sit together.
Thank you.
I'll take a couple of these if you don't mind.
That's very nice to get back a little bit.
I left my camera to look at home.
Oh, that is a bad thing.
Well, I didn't know what they were doing.
And I came here by way of Madison, and it was one of these things where the airlines only let you take two bags on now, and my camera clip, it did a whole extra bag, and I was making connections, and I didn't want to be packing any bags.
Um, it's worth telling.
Ah, you know this book?
Well, I don't know.
They're over here.
Yeah, this is famous.
You're looking for this book?
Yeah.
Yeah, they are.
Mine too.
They're there.
All right, here you come to mind.
And it probably has toilet paper in it.
It might have a page.
It isn't toilet paper.
It's something better.
This is vanity for me, but would you mind if we have a picture of it?
How about, can you get it this way with these shelves?
Oh, yes.
You have to have it in the picture, and that's right.
Okay.
This picture pretty much is in his perspective.
It seems sort of real or something.
This one?
It looks like it's... Maybe it'll shut up.
Oh, you're back.
Oh, I'm looking at it.
I don't do photography here anymore.
Just pretty much a little bit.
Okay.
There you go.
Take another.
Okay.
Thank you.
Great.
May I sit here?
Yeah, sure.
I'll put it all through.
This is a lady across the street, and it's a descendant of one of the initial investors in Calview, and so it's in her family.
This is Skinker Road at Del Mar.
Yeah, the mule trains, horses that graded the property.
It's amazing how treeless it was.
Oh, yeah.
I can't get over that, because we live at 6140 Westminster, and I've seen, you know, from the stinker of Oliver neighborhood shops.
They just leveled it.
And I just think what it was like in the summertime.
Hot, nothing to shave.
Yeah.
Dust blowing.
Was it being actively farmed at some point?
Yeah.
I thought it was part of a large farm farm.
In the someplace area, it was a farm.
Well, we were a farm, too.
Yeah.
Okay.
And I talked with, this is looking down Union to Washington University.
You can kind of see it there.
The fancy road for the time.
I mean, compared to the other.
This is Lindell, looking from Union down Lindell.
Yeah, it had just been built on.
Yeah.
Okay, St.
Louis.
Now, do you realize today is Shakespeare's birth birth birth birth birth birth birth birth birth birth birth birth birth birth birth birth birth birth birth birth birth birth birth birth birth birth birth birth birth birth birth birth birth birth birth birth birth birth birth birth birth birth birth
But this earth moving, this grading, is pretty serious.
I think probably this also happened in Skink and Bolivar area.
I talked with Carol Diaz-Granadas.
I don't know if you know her.
No.
She's a graduate of the anthropology department, a professional archaeologist, and she's done digs in Forest Park and along over to Perry University.
And I just asked her, because I wanted to find out if
In fact, we couldn't make any sort of assumptions about Native Americans.
Well, thank you.
What I'd like to do, if I may, when I get home and send you a copy of the Slender of Letters, the book, which follows... Sure, I'd love it.
And just so you'll be able to see the next one, which is... If you're waiting for the book fair...
And you say you usually buy about a hundred or so.
A hundred or more books.
Now do you do this in tandem, or do you shamelessly use your wife to shuffle the stuff back and forth to the car?
We take little shopping carts that fold up, and we both go in different directions at different things.
and uh and and it's it's great fun because stuff that we're interested in almost no one else is there's no rush um and uh and then the books all have their own history in the feel of them even their ware and actually i've found a few things
that I could save, namely a friend, a writer friend, and the first edition of one of their books of poetry, so I can pick it up.
Isn't it really, have you ever found any inscribed copies of your own books being sold?
No.
Actually, I have rarely ever seen.
It is the sort of thing where,
I don't sell, but I did sell one of my books once.
It was an inscribed copy by John Gardner of his first novel.
And I got offered so much money for it, I thought, you know, okay.
And then I saw it in the catalog.
Yeah, that's depressing, isn't it?
Yeah, it is.
You feel betrayed, actually, don't you?
Yeah.
I sold a book.
I wrote about the Emily Dickinson, a little collecting book.
And I was offered, I paid $10 for it, and I was offered $7,000 for it.
And then I had two daughters in college, and you say, well, okay, well, you know.
And I don't collect them.